Let's talk about context.
So when I used to teach this
class forever and ever go,
people get really mad at me that I would
not teach this thing called react context.
And the reason being is this was not
an official API until react, 16,
so they standardize it in version 16, and
they took it from a really kind of
finicky bad API, in my opinion.
The old context API and they made it like
official, and it's actually quite nice to
use, now particularly with
hooks it works really well.
So what is context?
Everything that I've been showing you so
far,
is basically one way data flow, right?
You have a component that has state in it,
sometimes you'll pass that state down into
a child component which
can read it from props.
Which can pass it down as this
very obvious data flows down, and
does not flow up.
That's very intentional that because it
makes it very easy to follow your code,
the data only goes in one direction.
What if you have to have data
that goes on the other direction?
Sometimes you just have
constraints that require that, or
a different way of stating that.
Is what happens you have state that
affects your entire application all at
once, all the same time?
A good example that might be
something like a user, right?
If I'm a user on your website,
I'm a user on netflix.com, and
I navigate to 10 different
parts of the app.
My users important on every single
page of that application, right?
If I'm logged in, what my plan is?
Sometimes maybe like
what your password is?
All those kinds of things can affect
all the various different parts of
the application, so
you can see that's like app level state.
So on our Adopt Me page,
if I was logged in, right?
That would affect this page,
it would affect the details page,
it would affect all that kind of stuff,
you can get rid of that error by the way.
On details.
Yeah, there you go,
that's all working again.
So, what if you have app level state?
This is where something like
context comes into the picture,
where context can be very helpful.
It can help you kind of keep state
that affects your entire application.
So, I'm gonna show you one of
the ways that you might do this, for
something like a theme, right?
So maybe you have like a dark mode and
light mode, that would be
something you'd keep in context.
You wouldn't wanna just be passing
that down into every single component.
Otherwise, you'd end up with
this problem of base, and
this we used to do this
to be honest with you.
You'd be like in app, let's say I had
a theme of like some theme color.
I'd have like const themecolor = brown or
something like that,
I don't know why I thought Brown was like
the worst theme color, but here we are.
And you'd have to pass theme
into every component and then,
that would have to pass it down
into every other component, right?
This is called the prop drilling problem,
that the props have to drill down
into every single component.
And it gets very tedious to pass theme
into every component in your application.
This is what context is useful for,
because you can set it once
at the application level.
And then, every component that needs to
know about the theme can read from it,
does that make sense?
All right, cool, so we gonna make a theme
for the buttons in our application,
cuz I was out of ideas at that point.
[LAUGH] So what happens,
if I wanna have some sort of theme where
I can change the color of this button?
And go in here, and
Now, I could make it so
that my app had a theme and
then, I could pass that into both routes.
But, let's see how to do it with context.
Okay, The other thing I'm
gonna say about context is,
it basically for 95% of the reasons
we used to use Redux for.
Context is now a better choice,
I almost never use Redux anymore.
Redux is great, by the way, it has a lot
of really cool features about it, and
an intermediate,
I just a little section on Redux.
So I show you how to use Redux?
And there's very specific use cases for
it now, but 95,
99% of reasons you would use Redux,
you would now use this context.